Welcome back if you remember our talk about testing I mentioned that re-act has these two special features
that you often see in their tests.
One is the enzyme library which allows us to render our components in a test environment which we saw
and then we can use whatever xpect methods that we want from just to actually test whatever is render.
But there's also another thing called the snapshot testing.
And again this is a nother really good tool that comes with just that really really helps us test our
re-act components.
So let's talk about that in this video if we go back to our app.
You might be asking yourself.
All right.
I can keep going with this car component and just use the regular just syntax to make sure that the
car component has everything that I need including maybe an image tag a def tag some names and emails.
But here's the thing.
We worked really really hard to keep these components what we call stalest components.
They're not using the class syntax to extend Riak component.
They don't have any state.
They're just pure functions that we've created.
So if we're actually writing tests I bet we're going to repeat a lot of code here.
We're always going to just be testing if this guy render this god rendered.
And that's a lot of repeated work for a developer well just realize that this would be a lot of redundant
wasted time.
Wouldn't it be great if we can just take a snapshot of whatever this cart component renders And any
time while we're riding our car component anything changes and the component doesn't look as we expected
it to as the snapshot that we took a picture of well if it looks any different then we fail the test.
That's what snapshot testing is.
And it's really easy.
Let me demonstrate and you'll see how simple it is.
Let's go back to our car test here.
Instead of doing the length to equal one and many other tests we can right here.
Let's do something different here.
I'm going to write xpect.
We're to our shallow card and says we're not using Rander mount here.
Just to remove that from our imports now we've rendered the cart component in jest.
We can use snapshot testing to say to match
snapshot.
That's it.
So what does this do.
Well let's save here.
And see what just happened.
We have a snapshot summary that showed up that says one snapshot written in one in one test suite and
we see that it passed.
That's good.
But one thing you may have noticed is that we now have a folder a snapshot folder that magically appeared
just by running this method.
If I open this up I see that just took a snapshot and you can read more about it here.
But it looks like a text file or a plain text file that has all these things.
You see the shallow wrapper object here that has lenth 1.
It has the class name that we have in our div.
If I keep scrolling down we see that we have a ton of information such as the type of div..
We also have a type of p a paragraph.
Now what does this actually mean.
This took a picture of this component when we shallow rendered it so that now I can keep saving let's
say I'm working on my app working on the car component and I keep saving keep saving but I decide to
remove this text center calculus class that it has I'm going to change that and save that now.
My tests fail and it says one snapshot test failed because we've just changed what the snapshot expected.
The car component to render.
How cool is that.
Magically detects any changes and if let's say a developer comes in and messes up our cart component
the tests will immediately fail.
We see that expect to read your car component is failing.
That's very very cool and it even tells you where the changes have made.
This is the same with let's say we're by mistake not rendering our component our e-mail of the robot.
If I see this we see that we're missing.
If you thinks
very cool.
Now let's go back to having the e-mail here.
Let's save it.
OK.
Everything is passing but let's say that well I actually do not want the tax to be centered.
I do.
This was intentional.
I did want to move the class name and make a change to it.
Well with snapshot testing if I save this we see that we have press w to show more.
I'm going to plug Pressey WG and here we see that we have the option of pressing you to update the failing
snapshots.
If I press you here it's going to take another snapshot and it's going to say yes I made this intentionally
take another snapshot and use that as a reference.
So I'm going to say you and there you go.
My snapshot is now updated.
And if I go back to the way I had it before it's not going to fail because it's expecting a different
snapshot.
The snapshot was just updated in here.
Now how simple is that.
It's very very nice.
And as a matter of fact because we've made this card component so simple as just a function a pure function
that takes an input and always produces the same output by just using the snapshot testing.
We don't really need to test any more.
We're testing exactly what it needs to do which is make sure that the car component renders whatever
we tell it to render.
And that's the beauty of snapshot testing and creating these small stateless components.
We can have really really nice tests that are one liners to just run a snapshot test and two we've pretty
much covered our bases for the cart.
Now one thing I haven't shown you and let me go back to updating our snapshot here.
Want to press you is code coverage.
How do we know that the maps snapshot or the to match snapshot is actually fully testing the car component.
Well I can't run NPM test dash dash space dash dash coverage and it's going to show me a coverage report
and let me make this a little bit bigger so we can see look at that.
We have absolutely zero tests other than perhaps the set up test.
Doug Yes but that's because we're not doing anything in that file.
So there's not much to test there.
But if we look at cart component even though all the other components have just zero percent zero percent
test coverage card component now has a 100 percent code coverage.
How cool is that.
One simple line and we've covered our bases with the card component.
Again I'm going to keep saying this throughout these videos but writing tests shouldn't be complicated.
Try to structure your application in a way that writing tests are really really simple and the way you
do that is by writing these pure functions that keep things simple and you don't have these massive
functions that do a ton of things that become harder and harder to test with more lines of code.
All right that's it for now.
Let's keep writing some more tests and the next video by.